 All right, you can screw up every other sales skill, but if you get this one down, it will be  a lot easier for you to convert the leads that you're getting right now into actual appointments.  And then most importantly, it'll be a lot easier for you to close and enroll new clients.  So I want to talk about the number one sales skill for you to really focus on this year.  All right, doesn't matter if you're in real estate sales or you sell something else,  we're going to focus primarily today in today's video on real estate sales specifically,  but this would pertain to any salesperson out there. All right, so I want to talk about  what we already know about human beings. You see, when we think about selling, what is it that  has to occur for a sale to be made? Well, we already know that requires a human being to change,  to go from what they're doing today to doing something different. So this is human behavior  and we're talking about humans making a change. Well, what do we know about people in their decision  making process? Yes, we already know that people make decisions either to avoid pain or to get  closer to pleasure. We already know that's where the bulk of their motivation comes from. However,  how do they actually get down to the decision to do or to not do something? Well,  there's really what we would call the three rules of influence. And here's where most  untrained salespeople make a lot of mistakes. And we'll talk a lot about that in today's episode.  So number one, people in general don't believe what you the salesperson tells them  because of what we already know, which is perceived bias. They believe that everything that you tell them  that they should do, you're doing so for your benefit, not for theirs, even if they were to benefit.  Most people can't see it because of that perceived bias. You're the salesperson, you're the one  who's going to benefit from what it is that you're saying. So therefore, I put this defensive wall  up and I don't believe what you say. That's rule number one. Rule number two is people  more times than not will believe what other people tell them. So like a third-party validation  or a third-party referral. That's why the power of referrals works so well. Hey, listen,  I worked with this service provider before. He or she did an awesome job that helps people get to  some type of decision, but nothing comes close to rule number three, which is people always believe  what they tell themselves. And so in other words, what we're going to uncover or unpack in today's  episode is this whole idea of what psychologists call self-persuasion. How do we as salespeople ask  questions in a way that help the prospect discover their reasons for change? Not your reasons  for why they should change. That's a massive difference because good salespeople ask questions  that help them to learn about the prospect, but listen closely. Great salespeople ask questions  to help prospects learn about themselves. So the whole idea, the whole foundation of the reverse  selling methodology and what we're going to talk about in today's video is how do you form the questions  in which you ask? Because we all know we've got to ask great questions. Well, what does that mean?  What makes up a good question versus a bad question? What type of questions can you ask that would  elicit this self-persuasion? Where in other words, you're getting the prospect to verbalize their own  reasons for why they should or should not do something rather than you imposing your reasons on why  they should or should not do something. So let me give you an example because we're talking to  mostly real estate agents today. What we often see is with the mainstream scripts out there that have  been used for 30, 40, 50 years. These are all questions that when asked, elicit a lot of rejection, a lot  of pushback, a lot of what I would call psychological reactants. You're met with a lot of friction. Why?  Because the questions that were being asked to ask are all designed to, well, elicit your benefit.  So things like, listen, with the market being the way that it is, upper down doesn't matter.  It would probably make more sense for you to sell now versus wait. That is a script or a language  pattern rather that comes across for the sales person's benefit. That would be the sales person coming  up with their reason on why the prospect should do something and nobody likes to be told what to do.  The second that we feel that our freedom to choose is at risk, psychological reactants goes up.  That's the resistance you're often met with a lot of these scripts that are floating around out there  in the real estate world. So we need to ask questions that are what we would call of  socratic nature. So when we ask a question that is based around the socratic method, we ask questions  that are solely designed to get the prospects to think and to verbalize their own reasons for change  without the perceived bias, without the risk for eliciting psychological reactants. How do we do this?  Well, one of the things we can do is we can ask questions that are perceived in a way that are against  the sales person's best interest. So let me give you a really, really good example.  Most real estate people, most real estate salespeople, most real estate agents,  when they're communicating with somebody who's thinking about selling their home, are all presenting  the reasons on why the prospect should sell the home. So most people we talk to are ambivalent,  meaning they've got a reason in their mind of why they should do something and they've got a reason  in their mind of why they should not. And all too often, the eager real estate salesperson who's  paid on commission that the prospect are all aware of, they're making the case for why the prospects  should do something now. They're giving them all these creative reasons and why the prospect should  sell now. And these are all what we talked about. The salesperson's reasons for why the prospect should  change. And when we do that, we have to defend the status quo, we being the consumer in that example.  So if a salesperson says, Hey, here's why you should do something now, all that that does is elicit  all of the reasons why the prospect should not. And the salesperson is to blame. The salesperson  is at fault because we are responsible for how prospects respond to us. So if you're getting a lot  of pushback, you're getting a lot of resistance. You're getting a lot of objections that are difficult  to respond to. Most likely, it's how in which you're communicating that is eliciting that type of  response. So what do we do instead? So rather than present an argument for why the prospect maybe  should do something, we're going to do the exact opposite. All right, this is all backed by research,  this is all backed by science, this is all backed by human psychology. And so when we speak in terms  of potentially in a way that would go against your interest, prospects don't, prospects don't  resist because they don't feel any perceived threat that you're trying to just close a deal or sell  them something. Let me give you a great example. So let's go back to the example we just talked about.  Rather than you giving a homeowner all these reasons for why they should sell now because of  rates, because of home values, whatever else you can come up with, why not present a case for the status  quo? Why not ask a question to the prospect that is of socratic nature? And we say Mr. prospect,  what's wrong with where you live now? Now think about that for a second. Every one of your competitors,  maybe even yourself, have tried to come up with some type of fancy script to get that appointment,  to get that person to list their house with you, to meet with you now. And you're maybe the first  person who presents a case for the status quo. You present a case for why the prospect should do  nothing. Well, what do we know? Let's go back to what we just talked about a minute ago. It's almost like  this teeter totter. Okay. What happens is when you present an argument for why the prospect should  do something, they argue why they should not. So what do we know about reverse psychology? What do we  know about self persuasion? If we present the case for why they should not, this gets the person to  verbalize their reasons for why they should. That is how you get the prospects to verbalize their  reasons for change, not your reasons for change. So let's go back to the question. Mr. prospect,  well, you see, I mean, I'm looking at the property right now. It looks like a beautiful home. You're  in a great neighborhood. What's wrong with where you're at now? Can you just stay put? Well, Brandon,  we'd love to stay put. But reason one, reason two, reason three, reason four. Now who's doing the  selling? Now the prospect is verbalizing to themselves all of the reasons why they in this case  should make the move. Well, we've got to get something bigger. We've got to get something smaller.  The baby is due. I'm going through a divorce. I am doing, we're going through a job transfer. We want  to get the kids in another school district by this time frame. We love it here, but here are all the  reasons why I can't stay here. You're the first salesperson who's presented a case that would go  against your interest or the perceived interest because what do you want? You want a listing.  You told them to stay put. That's one way to do that. Let me give you another example.  So when we're prospecting, we're calling expired listings for sale by owners,  probates, absentee owners, just let's just sold calls. We're trying to make a case for why this person  should meet with us. We're trying to set the appointment. That's what I've been asking you to do  for the last 10 years. Well, there's a way in which to do it that would allow you to get more prospects  to do exactly what it is that is in their best interest, which is to perhaps meet with you.  When you are presenting all the reasons why they should meet with you, what's happening to you often?  They're giving you reasons and why they can. They're giving you pushback. They're giving you  objections. You're met with all of that I hear every single day. Well, what have you learned  in this video that we could do differently? What if we said, listen, Mr. Prospect, I don't know if it  makes sense or not. But what benefit if Annie, would there be a new and I getting together for 15,  20 minutes and looking at a plan that would cause your property to actually sell at a price  that works for you or more? What benefit if Annie, would there be in you and I potentially getting  together for 15, 20 minutes and having a conversation? Now, instead of what I think a lot of people  are asking you to do in this industry is, well, let's get together because of this, this, this,  and this and this. Prospect says, nope, I'm not interested. I gotta talk to my spouse. They're just  being polite and trying to get you off the phone. What we're going to do is we're going to use  language that would support the prospects autonomy to choose for themselves. What benefit if Annie? Well,  I'm not saying we're going to meet Brandon, but if we did meet, you know, I guess it would be nice  to meet with a real estate agent who can actually get the property sold because I'll tell you what,  the last two agents that we had gave us a bunch of BS and here we are. Properties have been  on the market for nine and a half months and it's still not sold. That's the prospect's reasons.  You've done a great job asking socratic-style questions to elicit self-persuasion,  getting the prospect to verbalize their reasons for doing something, not your reasons for doing  something. Let me give you a couple more examples. What about when we look at timelines? A lot of  people are trying to get prospects to do something now because you want to get a listing and you want  to get paid. I understand. Prospects know that too. That's why they resist you most of the time.  If you want to talk about timelines, maybe you ask a question like this. Listen, if you were presented  with an offer, with a price that works for you or more with all the terms that made sense,  I mean, what issues would that cause if any? What issues would that cause if any? Because we're trying  to get the prospect. This is a no-oriented question. Well, I mean, that wouldn't cause any issues. That's  exactly what we're trying to do. We're trying to get out of here as soon as possible. It's them verbalizing  all of their reasons and then it only makes sense for us to take the next step. Well, if you're looking to  move right away, which is what it sounds like you guys want to do. If you want, and I'm happy to do so,  but it's totally up to you, be happy to get together with you one day this week. We could take a look  at a couple of things that would cause your home to actually sell. Then listen, let's not make  each other any promises. You can decide after our meeting if working together with me makes sense or not.  Is that reasonable?  When we start to approach our sales conversation in a way that gets the prospect to start verbalizing  their own motivation for buying or selling a house, rather than trying to pressure them using our  reasons, I think what you will find is that only do the conversations get much, much better,  but you start dealing with a lot less rejection, a lot less resistance. Your hesitation to prospecting  and calling your leads actually starts to dissipate because you're not having to deal with all of the  conflict that you're probably dealing with right now in your lead generation or your lead conversion  efforts. If you want more help with this and you want to see how these language patterns come together,  I'm going to put a link right in the description, download my brand new script book,  you can kind of see some of this stuff come together.